README.md, before:

# In The Box - Website

Production-ready open source infrastructure stacks. One command. Zero complexity.

## Products

- **[OIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/oib)** - Observability in a Box
- **[SIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/sib)** - SIEM in a Box

## Local Development

### Prerequisites
- Ruby 2.7+
- Bundler

### Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
bundle install

# Run local server
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

Open [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) in your browser.

### Build for production

```bash
bundle exec jekyll build
```

The site will be built to `_site/`.

## Deploying to GitHub Pages

1. Push to the `main` branch
2. Go to Settings → Pages
3. Select "Deploy from a branch" 
4. Choose `main` branch and `/ (root)` folder
5. Save

The site will be available at `https://yourusername.github.io/in-the-box-tech/`

### Custom Domain

To use a custom domain like `inthebox.tech`:

1. Add a `CNAME` file with your domain
2. Configure DNS to point to GitHub Pages
3. Enable HTTPS in repository settings

## Structure

```
.
├── _config.yml          # Site configuration
├── _layouts/            # Page templates
│   ├── default.html
│   ├── page.html
│   └── product.html
├── _includes/           # Reusable components
│   ├── header.html
│   └── footer.html
├── _products/           # Product pages (collection)
│   ├── oib.md
│   └── sib.md
├── assets/
│   ├── css/main.css     # Styles
│   ├── favicon.svg
│   └── images/          # Product screenshots
├── index.html           # Homepage
├── about.md             # About page
├── Gemfile              # Ruby dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Adding Screenshots

Place product screenshots in:
- `assets/images/oib/` - OIB screenshots
- `assets/images/sib/` - SIB screenshots

Recommended image sizes:
- Dashboard screenshots: 1200x800px
- Full-width images: 1600x900px

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add AIB product and fix missing navigation for NIB
- Add AIB (Assets in a Box) as fifth product with full product page
- Add NIB and AIB to header navigation dropdown (NIB was missing)
- Update footer with all 5 products and documentation links
- Add AIB card to homepage, update product count to 5
- Create OG image for social sharing (was referenced but missing)
- Update README with all products and correct site structure
- Update blog post to reflect current product lineup
- Add .badge-infra CSS class for infrastructure badge styling

README.md, after:

# In a Box Tools - Website

Production-ready open source infrastructure stacks. One command. Zero complexity.

## Products

- **[OIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/oib)** - Observability in a Box
- **[SIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/sib)** - SIEM in a Box
- **[SIB-K8s](https://github.com/matijazezelj/sib-k8s)** - SIEM in a Box for Kubernetes
- **[NIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib)** - NIDS in a Box
- **[AIB](https://github.com/matijazezelj/aib)** - Assets in a Box

## Local Development

### Prerequisites
- Ruby 2.7+
- Bundler

### Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
bundle install

# Run local server
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

Open [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) in your browser.

### Build for production

```bash
bundle exec jekyll build
```

The site will be built to `_site/`.

## Deploying to GitHub Pages

1. Push to the `main` branch
2. Go to Settings → Pages
3. Select "Deploy from a branch"
4. Choose `main` branch and `/ (root)` folder
5. Save

The site will be available at `https://in-a-box-tools.tech`

### Custom Domain

To use a custom domain like `in-a-box-tools.tech`:

1. Add a `CNAME` file with your domain
2. Configure DNS to point to GitHub Pages
3. Enable HTTPS in repository settings

## Structure

```
.
├── _config.yml          # Site configuration
├── _layouts/            # Page templates
│   ├── default.html
│   ├── page.html
│   ├── product.html
│   └── post.html
├── _includes/           # Reusable components
│   ├── header.html
│   └── footer.html
├── _products/           # Product pages (collection)
│   ├── oib.md
│   ├── sib.md
│   ├── sib-k8s.md
│   ├── nib.md
│   └── aib.md
├── _posts/              # Blog posts
├── assets/
│   ├── css/main.css     # Styles
│   ├── favicon.svg
│   └── images/          # Product screenshots
│       ├── oib/
│       ├── sib/
│       ├── sib-k8s/
│       └── nib/
├── index.html           # Homepage
├── about.md             # About page
├── blog.html            # Blog listing
├── 404.html             # Error page
├── Gemfile              # Ruby dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Adding Screenshots

Place product screenshots in:
- `assets/images/oib/` - OIB screenshots
- `assets/images/sib/` - SIB screenshots
- `assets/images/sib-k8s/` - SIB-K8s screenshots
- `assets/images/nib/` - NIB screenshots

Recommended image sizes:
- Dashboard screenshots: 1200x800px
- Full-width images: 1600x900px

## License

MIT
