_products/nib.md, before:

---
layout: product
title: "NIB - NIDS in a Box"
tagline: "One-command network security monitoring with Suricata IDS and CrowdSec collaborative threat response."
icon: "🌐"
github: "https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib"
docs: "https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib#readme"
permalink: /products/nib/
---

<section class="product-intro">
  <p class="lead">Most network security tools detect and alert — they assume someone is watching. NIB detects, blocks, and shares: Suricata finds threats, CrowdSec blocks them automatically, and the community network means you benefit from attacks detected by millions of other nodes before they reach you.</p>
</section>

## ⚡ Quick Start

```bash
# Clone and configure
git clone https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib.git && cd nib
cp .env.example .env  # Set SURICATA_INTERFACE

# Install everything
make install

# Open Grafana dashboard
make open
```

Open Grafana at [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) and explore four pre-built dashboards.

---

## 📋 Prerequisites

| Requirement | Minimum |
|-------------|---------|
| Docker | 20.10+ |
| Docker Compose | v2+ |
| Linux | Kernel 4.15+ (for AF_PACKET) |
| RAM | 2 GB |
| Disk | 10 GB |

> **Note**: Suricata requires `network_mode: host` and `NET_ADMIN` + `NET_RAW` capabilities for packet capture. CrowdSec's firewall bouncer requires `NET_ADMIN` for iptables access.

### Hardware Sizing by Link Speed

| Link Speed | CPU | RAM | Storage | Example Hardware |
|------------|-----|-----|---------|------------------|
| **100 Mbps** | 2 cores | 2 GB | 20 GB | Raspberry Pi 4, any old PC |
| **500 Mbps** | 4 cores | 4 GB | 50 GB | Intel N100 mini PC, NUC |
| **1 Gbps** | 4-6 cores | 8 GB | 100 GB | Intel N305, i5 NUC, old desktop |
| **2.5 Gbps** | 8 cores | 16 GB | 200 GB | i5/i7 desktop, Ryzen 5 |
| **10 Gbps** | 16+ cores | 32 GB | 500 GB+ | Xeon/EPYC server |

**NIC recommendations:** Intel NICs (i210, i350) for 1G, Intel i225-V for 2.5G, Intel X520/Mellanox ConnectX for 10G.

---

## 🧠 How It Works

```
Network packets on eth0
    │
    ▼
Suricata (AF_PACKET, host network) ──→ EVE JSON (Docker volume)
                                            │
                             ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐
                             ▼              ▼              ▼
                       CrowdSec        Vector          fast.log
                       (Behavioral     (Log shipping   (Quick
                        Detection)      to storage)     review)
                            │              │
                            ▼              ▼
                       Firewall       VictoriaLogs ──→ Grafana
                       Bouncer        (Log storage)    (Dashboards)
                       (iptables
                        DROP)
```

1. **Detect**: Suricata inspects every packet with 40,000+ signatures and 20+ protocol parsers
2. **Block**: CrowdSec automatically bans attacking IPs — on the host, on your router, or at your CDN
3. **Share**: Attack data is shared with the CrowdSec community. You contribute signals, you receive a curated blocklist from millions of other nodes

---

## 🛡️ What You Get

| Component | Technology | Purpose |
|-----------|------------|---------|
| **Network IDS** | Suricata 7.0 | Deep packet inspection with 40,000+ ET Open signatures |
| **Protocol Analysis** | Suricata | HTTP, DNS, TLS, SMB, SSH, and 20+ protocol parsers |
| **TLS Fingerprinting** | Suricata | JA3/JA4 fingerprints to identify malware and suspicious clients |
| **DNS Monitoring** | Suricata | Full query/response logging, NXDOMAIN tracking for DGA detection |
| **Behavioral Detection** | CrowdSec | Pattern-based attack detection (brute force, scans, exploits) |
| **Automated Blocking** | CrowdSec Bouncer | iptables DROP for banned IPs |
| **Community Intel** | CrowdSec Network | Shared threat intelligence from millions of nodes |
| **Log Storage** | VictoriaLogs | Fast log aggregation and querying |
| **Log Shipping** | Vector | Structured log routing from Suricata to storage |
| **Visualization** | Grafana | Four pre-built security dashboards |

---

## 🎯 What Gets Detected

Out of the box, NIB catches:

| Category | Examples |
|----------|----------|
| **Network Scans** | Port scans, service enumeration, Nmap signatures |
| **Exploit Attempts** | CVE exploits, shellcode, buffer overflows |
| **Malware Traffic** | C2 callbacks, known malware signatures, crypto mining |
| **DNS Anomalies** | DGA domains, NXDOMAIN floods, DNS tunneling indicators |
| **TLS Anomalies** | Known-bad JA3/JA4 fingerprints, expired certificates |
| **Protocol Abuse** | HTTP attacks, SMB exploits, SSH brute force |
| **Trojan Activity** | Outbound connections to suspicious ports, reverse shells |

All detections use the **Community ID** standard for cross-tool flow correlation.

---

## 📊 Security Dashboards

| Dashboard | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Network Security Overview** | Alert timeline, top signatures, source/dest IPs, attack categories |
| **DNS Analysis** | Query volume, top domains, NXDOMAIN tracking, client activity |
| **TLS & Fingerprints** | TLS versions, JA3/JA4 hashes, SNI analysis, certificate issues |
| **CrowdSec Decisions** | Blocked vs allowed traffic, banned IPs, blocked signatures |

---

## 🔌 Bouncer Modes

NIB supports two deployment modes:

### Local Mode (default)

Blocks attackers on the NIB host using iptables. Best when NIB runs directly on the machine you want to protect.

```
CrowdSec Engine → iptables bouncer → DROP on this host
```

### Sensor Mode (remote router/firewall)

No local bouncer. CrowdSec's LAPI is exposed so external bouncers can pull decisions. Use this when NIB is a sensor and blocking should happen on a separate router or firewall.

```
CrowdSec Engine (LAPI exposed on :8080)
    ├──→ pfSense / OPNsense (native CrowdSec plugin)
    ├──→ MikroTik / OpenWrt (router sync script)
    └──→ Cloudflare / AWS WAF (CDN bouncer)
```

```bash
# In .env
BOUNCER_MODE=sensor
ROUTER_TYPE=mikrotik
ROUTER_URL=https://192.168.1.1
ROUTER_USER=admin
ROUTER_PASS=your-password

# Start continuous sync
make router-sync-daemon
```

**Supported routers:**

| Router | How It Blocks |
|--------|---------------|
| MikroTik (RouterOS 7+) | Address list via REST API |
| pfSense | Native CrowdSec plugin |
| OPNsense | Native CrowdSec plugin |
| OpenWrt | ipset/nftables set via luci-rpc |
| Any REST API | Generic JSON webhook |
| Cloudflare | CDN edge blocking |

---

## 🏗️ Where to Deploy

### Linux Router / Gateway (best coverage)

Suricata sees all traffic, iptables blocks before packets reach internal hosts.

### Port Mirror / SPAN (dedicated sensor)

Configure a SPAN port on your switch to copy traffic to a dedicated NIB host. Use sensor mode to push blocks to your actual firewall.

### Individual Server (protect one host)

Monitor and protect a single Linux server. Suricata sees traffic to/from that host, iptables blocking is fully effective.

### Alongside SIB (defense in depth)

Run both on the same host for complementary coverage:
- **SIB** (Falco) watches syscalls: file access, process execution, container activity
- **NIB** (Suricata) watches network: traffic patterns, DNS, TLS, protocol anomalies

Separate Docker networks, separate storage, separate Grafana instances (SIB on port 3000, NIB on port 3001).

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Key environment variables in `.env`:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SURICATA_INTERFACE` | eth0 | Network interface to monitor |
| `HOME_NET` | RFC1918 ranges | Your internal network definition |
| `BOUNCER_MODE` | local | `local` (iptables) or `sensor` (remote bouncers) |
| `CROWDSEC_ENROLL_KEY` | (none) | CrowdSec community enrollment key |
| `GRAFANA_PORT` | 3001 | Grafana port (avoids SIB conflict on 3000) |
| `ROUTER_TYPE` | (none) | Router type for sensor mode sync |
| `PRIVACY_MODE` | (none) | Set to `alerts-only` for privacy-conscious deployments |

---

## 🔒 Privacy Mode

By default, NIB ships full protocol metadata to storage (DNS queries, HTTP URLs, TLS SNI, flow records). For privacy-conscious deployments, restrict what reaches dashboards:

```bash
# In .env
PRIVACY_MODE=alerts-only
```

**What `alerts-only` does:**
- Only `alert` and `stats` events are shipped to VictoriaLogs
- DNS, HTTP, TLS, flow events are dropped at the Vector level
- Alert events keep: 5-tuple (src/dst IP + port, protocol), timestamp, signature ID/name, severity, action, community ID
- Alert events strip: app-layer fields (`http.*`, `tls.*`, `dns.*`), payload, packet data, alert metadata
- Suricata still logs everything locally (CrowdSec needs the full stream for behavioral detection)

**Dashboard impact:**
| Dashboard | Status |
|-----------|--------|
| Network Security Overview | Works (uses alert data) |
| CrowdSec Decisions | Works (uses alert + stats) |
| DNS Analysis | **Empty** (dns events not shipped) |
| TLS & Fingerprints | **Empty** (tls events not shipped) |

---

## 🔐 Security Hardening

NIB runs with elevated privileges — it's part of your trust boundary. For production deployments:

- **Threat Model** — What NIB detects, what it doesn't, and what happens if NIB itself is compromised
- **Production Checklist** — Step-by-step hardening checklist
- **Known Limitations** — WiFi capture, NIC offloading, false positives, blocking collateral

Run `make audit` to verify your security posture:

```bash
make audit
```

### Security Defaults

- Suricata runs with `network_mode: host` and elevated capabilities for packet capture
- CrowdSec's firewall bouncer needs `NET_ADMIN` to manage iptables rules
- VictoriaLogs is bound to localhost by default
- CrowdSec API is bound to localhost by default
- Grafana has anonymous access disabled, sign-up disabled
- Admin password is auto-generated on first `make install`
- All containers use `no-new-privileges` and `cap_drop: ALL` with only required capabilities added back

---

## 🔗 Running NIB + SIB Together

NIB and SIB complement each other:

- **SIB** monitors what happens **inside** your hosts (syscalls, file access, process execution)
- **NIB** monitors what happens **on the network** (traffic, DNS, TLS, attacks)

They can run side by side on the same host:
- Separate Docker networks (`sib-network` vs `nib-network`)
- Separate storage backends
- Separate Grafana instances (SIB on port 3000, NIB on port 3001)

Or combine dashboards into a single Grafana by adding the other's datasource.

---

## 🛠️ Commands Reference

```bash
# Installation
make install              # Install all stacks
make uninstall            # Remove everything

# Management
make start                # Start all services
make stop                 # Stop all services
make restart              # Restart all services
make status               # Show service status
make health               # Quick health check

# Suricata IDS
make update-rules         # Download latest ET Open rules
make reload-rules         # Reload rules without restart
make test-rules           # Validate rule syntax
make logs-suricata        # Tail Suricata logs
make logs-alerts          # Tail IDS alert log

# CrowdSec Threat Response
make decisions            # List active bans
make alerts               # List detected attacks
make ban IP=1.2.3.4       # Manually ban an IP
make unban IP=1.2.3.4     # Remove a ban
make bouncer-status       # Check bouncer connection
make metrics              # Show CrowdSec statistics

# Router Sync (sensor mode)
make add-router-bouncer   # Generate bouncer API key
make router-sync          # One-shot push to router
make router-sync-daemon   # Continuous push to router

# Testing
make test-alert           # Trigger a test IDS alert
make test-dns             # Generate test DNS queries

# Utilities
make open                 # Open Grafana in browser
make logs                 # Tail all service logs
make info                 # Show endpoints and credentials
make audit                # Security posture check
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Suricata not capturing traffic

```bash
# Check the interface name
ip link show

# Verify Suricata sees packets
make shell-suricata
suricatasc -c "iface-stat default" /var/run/suricata/suricata-command.socket
```

### No alerts in Grafana

```bash
# Trigger a test alert
make test-alert

# Check Vector is shipping logs
make logs-vector

# Check VictoriaLogs received data
curl -s "http://localhost:9428/select/logsql/query?query=*&limit=5"
```

### CrowdSec bouncer not blocking

```bash
# Check bouncer is connected
make bouncer-status

# Check active decisions
make decisions

# Check iptables rules
sudo iptables -L crowdsec-blacklists -n
```

---

## 🔄 NIB vs Other Tools

| | NIB | Security Onion | SELKS | Malcolm | Zeek |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Setup** | `make install` | 30-60 min | 15-30 min | 20-30 min | Manual |
| **Auto-blocking** | Yes (CrowdSec) | No | No | No | No |
| **Community intel** | Millions of nodes | No | No | No | No |
| **Router integration** | Built-in | No | No | No | No |
| **RAM** | ~1 GB | 8-16 GB | 4-8 GB | 8-16 GB | ~512 MB |

For detailed comparisons, see the [comparison guide](https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib/blob/main/docs/comparison.md).

---

## 👥 Who This Is For

- **Small companies** without dedicated security staff who need automated protection
- **Homelab enthusiasts** who want network-level threat detection
- **System administrators** managing Linux servers or routers
- **Anyone** running internet-facing services who wants IDS + automated blocking
- **SIB users** who want to add network monitoring alongside host monitoring

## Who This Is NOT For

- Teams that need full packet capture and forensic replay — use Security Onion or Malcolm
- Organizations that need Zeek's deep protocol scripting — NIB doesn't include it (yet)
- People who need encrypted payload inspection — passive IDS can't see inside TLS

---

## 📄 License

Apache 2.0 License — use it, modify it, build on it.

<div class="cta-box">
  <h3>Ready to secure your network?</h3>
  <a href="https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib" class="btn btn-primary btn-large">View on GitHub</a>
</div>

Commit message:

docs(nib): clarify IDS vs IPS modes

_products/nib.md, after:

---
layout: product
title: "NIB - NIDS in a Box"
tagline: "One-command network security monitoring with Suricata IDS and CrowdSec collaborative threat response."
icon: "🌐"
github: "https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib"
docs: "https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib#readme"
permalink: /products/nib/
---

<section class="product-intro">
  <p class="lead">Most network security tools detect and alert — they assume someone is watching. NIB detects, blocks, and shares: Suricata finds threats, CrowdSec blocks them automatically, and the community network means you benefit from attacks detected by millions of other nodes before they reach you.</p>
</section>

## 🎯 IDS vs IPS: What NIB Actually Does

**IDS** = Intrusion **Detection** System (passive monitoring, alerts only)  
**IPS** = Intrusion **Prevention** System (inline blocking, drops packets in real-time)

NIB operates in two modes:

| Mode | How It Works | Blocking | Best For |
|------|--------------|----------|----------|
| **Local** (default) | NIB runs on the host you protect | iptables blocks on that host | Internet-facing servers |
| **Sensor** (mirror/SPAN) | NIB receives mirrored traffic | Pushes bans to router/firewall | Dedicated IDS, full network visibility |

### Sensor Mode (Port Mirror)

When using a **port mirror/SPAN**, NIB is:
- ✅ **IDS**: Suricata detects threats in real-time
- ⚠️ **Delayed IPS**: CrowdSec pushes blocks to your router, but it's **not instant** — the first packets get through before the ban kicks in (1-5 seconds)

This is **not** inline IPS. For real-time packet dropping, traffic would need to flow *through* NIB.

### Local Mode

When NIB runs directly on a server (not mirrored), the iptables bouncer **is** a real IPS for that host.

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

```bash
# Clone and configure
git clone https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib.git && cd nib
cp .env.example .env  # Set SURICATA_INTERFACE

# Install everything
make install

# Open Grafana dashboard
make open
```

Open Grafana at [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) and explore four pre-built dashboards.

---

## 📋 Prerequisites

| Requirement | Minimum |
|-------------|---------|
| Docker | 20.10+ |
| Docker Compose | v2+ |
| Linux | Kernel 4.15+ (for AF_PACKET) |
| RAM | 2 GB |
| Disk | 10 GB |

> **Note**: Suricata requires `network_mode: host` and `NET_ADMIN` + `NET_RAW` capabilities for packet capture. CrowdSec's firewall bouncer requires `NET_ADMIN` for iptables access.

### Hardware Sizing by Link Speed

| Link Speed | CPU | RAM | Storage | Example Hardware |
|------------|-----|-----|---------|------------------|
| **100 Mbps** | 2 cores | 2 GB | 20 GB | Raspberry Pi 4, any old PC |
| **500 Mbps** | 4 cores | 4 GB | 50 GB | Intel N100 mini PC, NUC |
| **1 Gbps** | 4-6 cores | 8 GB | 100 GB | Intel N305, i5 NUC, old desktop |
| **2.5 Gbps** | 8 cores | 16 GB | 200 GB | i5/i7 desktop, Ryzen 5 |
| **10 Gbps** | 16+ cores | 32 GB | 500 GB+ | Xeon/EPYC server |

**NIC recommendations:** Intel NICs (i210, i350) for 1G, Intel i225-V for 2.5G, Intel X520/Mellanox ConnectX for 10G.

---

## 🧠 How It Works

```
Network packets on eth0
    │
    ▼
Suricata (AF_PACKET, host network) ──→ EVE JSON (Docker volume)
                                            │
                             ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐
                             ▼              ▼              ▼
                       CrowdSec        Vector          fast.log
                       (Behavioral     (Log shipping   (Quick
                        Detection)      to storage)     review)
                            │              │
                            ▼              ▼
                       Firewall       VictoriaLogs ──→ Grafana
                       Bouncer        (Log storage)    (Dashboards)
                       (iptables
                        DROP)
```

1. **Detect**: Suricata inspects every packet with 40,000+ signatures and 20+ protocol parsers
2. **Block**: CrowdSec automatically bans attacking IPs — on the host, on your router, or at your CDN
3. **Share**: Attack data is shared with the CrowdSec community. You contribute signals, you receive a curated blocklist from millions of other nodes

---

## 🛡️ What You Get

| Component | Technology | Purpose |
|-----------|------------|---------|
| **Network IDS** | Suricata 7.0 | Deep packet inspection with 40,000+ ET Open signatures |
| **Protocol Analysis** | Suricata | HTTP, DNS, TLS, SMB, SSH, and 20+ protocol parsers |
| **TLS Fingerprinting** | Suricata | JA3/JA4 fingerprints to identify malware and suspicious clients |
| **DNS Monitoring** | Suricata | Full query/response logging, NXDOMAIN tracking for DGA detection |
| **Behavioral Detection** | CrowdSec | Pattern-based attack detection (brute force, scans, exploits) |
| **Automated Blocking** | CrowdSec Bouncer | iptables DROP for banned IPs |
| **Community Intel** | CrowdSec Network | Shared threat intelligence from millions of nodes |
| **Log Storage** | VictoriaLogs | Fast log aggregation and querying |
| **Log Shipping** | Vector | Structured log routing from Suricata to storage |
| **Visualization** | Grafana | Four pre-built security dashboards |

---

## 🎯 What Gets Detected

Out of the box, NIB catches:

| Category | Examples |
|----------|----------|
| **Network Scans** | Port scans, service enumeration, Nmap signatures |
| **Exploit Attempts** | CVE exploits, shellcode, buffer overflows |
| **Malware Traffic** | C2 callbacks, known malware signatures, crypto mining |
| **DNS Anomalies** | DGA domains, NXDOMAIN floods, DNS tunneling indicators |
| **TLS Anomalies** | Known-bad JA3/JA4 fingerprints, expired certificates |
| **Protocol Abuse** | HTTP attacks, SMB exploits, SSH brute force |
| **Trojan Activity** | Outbound connections to suspicious ports, reverse shells |

All detections use the **Community ID** standard for cross-tool flow correlation.

---

## 📊 Security Dashboards

| Dashboard | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Network Security Overview** | Alert timeline, top signatures, source/dest IPs, attack categories |
| **DNS Analysis** | Query volume, top domains, NXDOMAIN tracking, client activity |
| **TLS & Fingerprints** | TLS versions, JA3/JA4 hashes, SNI analysis, certificate issues |
| **CrowdSec Decisions** | Blocked vs allowed traffic, banned IPs, blocked signatures |

---

## 🔌 Bouncer Modes

NIB supports two deployment modes:

### Local Mode (default)

Blocks attackers on the NIB host using iptables. Best when NIB runs directly on the machine you want to protect.

```
CrowdSec Engine → iptables bouncer → DROP on this host
```

### Sensor Mode (remote router/firewall)

No local bouncer. CrowdSec's LAPI is exposed so external bouncers can pull decisions. Use this when NIB is a sensor and blocking should happen on a separate router or firewall.

```
CrowdSec Engine (LAPI exposed on :8080)
    ├──→ pfSense / OPNsense (native CrowdSec plugin)
    ├──→ MikroTik / OpenWrt (router sync script)
    └──→ Cloudflare / AWS WAF (CDN bouncer)
```

```bash
# In .env
BOUNCER_MODE=sensor
ROUTER_TYPE=mikrotik
ROUTER_URL=https://192.168.1.1
ROUTER_USER=admin
ROUTER_PASS=your-password

# Start continuous sync
make router-sync-daemon
```

**Supported routers:**

| Router | How It Blocks |
|--------|---------------|
| MikroTik (RouterOS 7+) | Address list via REST API |
| pfSense | Native CrowdSec plugin |
| OPNsense | Native CrowdSec plugin |
| OpenWrt | ipset/nftables set via luci-rpc |
| Any REST API | Generic JSON webhook |
| Cloudflare | CDN edge blocking |

---

## 🏗️ Where to Deploy

### Linux Router / Gateway (best coverage)

Suricata sees all traffic, iptables blocks before packets reach internal hosts.

### Port Mirror / SPAN (dedicated sensor)

Configure a SPAN port on your switch to copy traffic to a dedicated NIB host. Use sensor mode to push blocks to your actual firewall.

### Individual Server (protect one host)

Monitor and protect a single Linux server. Suricata sees traffic to/from that host, iptables blocking is fully effective.

### Alongside SIB (defense in depth)

Run both on the same host for complementary coverage:
- **SIB** (Falco) watches syscalls: file access, process execution, container activity
- **NIB** (Suricata) watches network: traffic patterns, DNS, TLS, protocol anomalies

Separate Docker networks, separate storage, separate Grafana instances (SIB on port 3000, NIB on port 3001).

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Key environment variables in `.env`:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SURICATA_INTERFACE` | eth0 | Network interface to monitor |
| `HOME_NET` | RFC1918 ranges | Your internal network definition |
| `BOUNCER_MODE` | local | `local` (iptables) or `sensor` (remote bouncers) |
| `CROWDSEC_ENROLL_KEY` | (none) | CrowdSec community enrollment key |
| `GRAFANA_PORT` | 3001 | Grafana port (avoids SIB conflict on 3000) |
| `ROUTER_TYPE` | (none) | Router type for sensor mode sync |
| `PRIVACY_MODE` | (none) | Set to `alerts-only` for privacy-conscious deployments |

---

## 🔒 Privacy Mode

By default, NIB ships full protocol metadata to storage (DNS queries, HTTP URLs, TLS SNI, flow records). For privacy-conscious deployments, restrict what reaches dashboards:

```bash
# In .env
PRIVACY_MODE=alerts-only
```

**What `alerts-only` does:**
- Only `alert` and `stats` events are shipped to VictoriaLogs
- DNS, HTTP, TLS, flow events are dropped at the Vector level
- Alert events keep: 5-tuple (src/dst IP + port, protocol), timestamp, signature ID/name, severity, action, community ID
- Alert events strip: app-layer fields (`http.*`, `tls.*`, `dns.*`), payload, packet data, alert metadata
- Suricata still logs everything locally (CrowdSec needs the full stream for behavioral detection)

**Dashboard impact:**
| Dashboard | Status |
|-----------|--------|
| Network Security Overview | Works (uses alert data) |
| CrowdSec Decisions | Works (uses alert + stats) |
| DNS Analysis | **Empty** (dns events not shipped) |
| TLS & Fingerprints | **Empty** (tls events not shipped) |

---

## 🔐 Security Hardening

NIB runs with elevated privileges — it's part of your trust boundary. For production deployments:

- **Threat Model** — What NIB detects, what it doesn't, and what happens if NIB itself is compromised
- **Production Checklist** — Step-by-step hardening checklist
- **Known Limitations** — WiFi capture, NIC offloading, false positives, blocking collateral

Run `make audit` to verify your security posture:

```bash
make audit
```

### Security Defaults

- Suricata runs with `network_mode: host` and elevated capabilities for packet capture
- CrowdSec's firewall bouncer needs `NET_ADMIN` to manage iptables rules
- VictoriaLogs is bound to localhost by default
- CrowdSec API is bound to localhost by default
- Grafana has anonymous access disabled, sign-up disabled
- Admin password is auto-generated on first `make install`
- All containers use `no-new-privileges` and `cap_drop: ALL` with only required capabilities added back

---

## 🔗 Running NIB + SIB Together

NIB and SIB complement each other:

- **SIB** monitors what happens **inside** your hosts (syscalls, file access, process execution)
- **NIB** monitors what happens **on the network** (traffic, DNS, TLS, attacks)

They can run side by side on the same host:
- Separate Docker networks (`sib-network` vs `nib-network`)
- Separate storage backends
- Separate Grafana instances (SIB on port 3000, NIB on port 3001)

Or combine dashboards into a single Grafana by adding the other's datasource.

---

## 🛠️ Commands Reference

```bash
# Installation
make install              # Install all stacks
make uninstall            # Remove everything

# Management
make start                # Start all services
make stop                 # Stop all services
make restart              # Restart all services
make status               # Show service status
make health               # Quick health check

# Suricata IDS
make update-rules         # Download latest ET Open rules
make reload-rules         # Reload rules without restart
make test-rules           # Validate rule syntax
make logs-suricata        # Tail Suricata logs
make logs-alerts          # Tail IDS alert log

# CrowdSec Threat Response
make decisions            # List active bans
make alerts               # List detected attacks
make ban IP=1.2.3.4       # Manually ban an IP
make unban IP=1.2.3.4     # Remove a ban
make bouncer-status       # Check bouncer connection
make metrics              # Show CrowdSec statistics

# Router Sync (sensor mode)
make add-router-bouncer   # Generate bouncer API key
make router-sync          # One-shot push to router
make router-sync-daemon   # Continuous push to router

# Testing
make test-alert           # Trigger a test IDS alert
make test-dns             # Generate test DNS queries

# Utilities
make open                 # Open Grafana in browser
make logs                 # Tail all service logs
make info                 # Show endpoints and credentials
make audit                # Security posture check
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Suricata not capturing traffic

```bash
# Check the interface name
ip link show

# Verify Suricata sees packets
make shell-suricata
suricatasc -c "iface-stat default" /var/run/suricata/suricata-command.socket
```

### No alerts in Grafana

```bash
# Trigger a test alert
make test-alert

# Check Vector is shipping logs
make logs-vector

# Check VictoriaLogs received data
curl -s "http://localhost:9428/select/logsql/query?query=*&limit=5"
```

### CrowdSec bouncer not blocking

```bash
# Check bouncer is connected
make bouncer-status

# Check active decisions
make decisions

# Check iptables rules
sudo iptables -L crowdsec-blacklists -n
```

---

## 🔄 NIB vs Other Tools

| | NIB | Security Onion | SELKS | Malcolm | Zeek |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Setup** | `make install` | 30-60 min | 15-30 min | 20-30 min | Manual |
| **Auto-blocking** | Yes (CrowdSec) | No | No | No | No |
| **Community intel** | Millions of nodes | No | No | No | No |
| **Router integration** | Built-in | No | No | No | No |
| **RAM** | ~1 GB | 8-16 GB | 4-8 GB | 8-16 GB | ~512 MB |

For detailed comparisons, see the [comparison guide](https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib/blob/main/docs/comparison.md).

---

## 👥 Who This Is For

- **Small companies** without dedicated security staff who need automated protection
- **Homelab enthusiasts** who want network-level threat detection
- **System administrators** managing Linux servers or routers
- **Anyone** running internet-facing services who wants IDS + automated blocking
- **SIB users** who want to add network monitoring alongside host monitoring

## Who This Is NOT For

- Teams that need full packet capture and forensic replay — use Security Onion or Malcolm
- Organizations that need Zeek's deep protocol scripting — NIB doesn't include it (yet)
- People who need encrypted payload inspection — passive IDS can't see inside TLS

---

## 📄 License

Apache 2.0 License — use it, modify it, build on it.

<div class="cta-box">
  <h3>Ready to secure your network?</h3>
  <a href="https://github.com/matijazezelj/nib" class="btn btn-primary btn-large">View on GitHub</a>
</div>
